talk about opportunity
receptivity is when we're open and
they're sponsored to the world around us
it's we're in a state of deep listening
and we're really experiencing the world
now you're noticing that we don't have
any slides up today that's because
seeing is a very active practice and
today we're going to be working over
here when we listening so at any point
of time during this top one close your
eyes that's totally cool till they both
up
so why is it important to be receptive I
think that receptivity has benefits on
its own brain just by itself once you
start with being receptive to the world
around you the world becomes more
vibrant colors the converter sounds
become more interesting and the world
you livin it just becomes so much richer
and more details at this product you
also become a much more effective and
productive a decision-maker when you're
receptive when you're in a state of
receptivity in a high-stakes situation
you have so much more information
available to you you're picking up on
details that are giving you an edge
you're being up on details that other
people if they're not in a state of
receptivity organized so it's going to
make you a very hectic year
so sound is motion in the air arrives
its vibrations that travel through the
air and then we can be heard by the year
Sam is measuring the coats in the human
ear hears between 16 and 20,000 Hertz
now
we all the frequencies that travel mayor
around us they affect us whether that we
hear them or not and the same is true
voice verse 7 we with the sound to make
and actions we take affect everything
around us as well
if you're interested in the visible
power of sound if you want to see like
what if you want to see the visual
visual effects on cause I strongly
recommend checking out the word batons
Jenny and dynamics today we're going to
be pulling heavily from this amazing
offerings were so hall and he wrote a
book called the yoga of sound
so this book talks about how you sound
is a stairway to consciousness and when
we talk about your left leg higher point
like well higher consciousness with
stuff like this you don't really want to
make your vibration higher the goal when
you're using sound is to make your
vibration more consistent richer you
want to be vibrating the state of love
or at the time you want to be vibrating
as to the peace more of the time
so the classic term yogev sound is
called nada yoga the word nada means
loud rushing drawing droning Oracle like
a river it refers to occurrence of sound
that exists in the human body and the
universe so making refer to any sound
was for non linguistic
so good exam on an example of
using sound for meditation is the
meditation I like to call the five
sounds meditation and that's when you
try to listen in 45 sounds amount you
and we're all going to do this so in
commutable position I just you guys I
can keep you madam Adam you got it sit
for one minute how's that sound yes
alright so we're going to meditate for
one minute and you're going to try to
listen for five styles that you can hear
open your eyes
so just call out its ASCII here
keep coming what else is new teacher
squeaky chair
breathing
but they're like we can will turn out
the lights for the as part of things
yeah they wouldn't have me for did that
so I I really appreciate that somebody
mentioned a bra and did anyone hear
their pulse
huh so I have question for you guys
who thinks that they can figure this
that can you hear the sound of silence
who thinks that you can write here the
same side let's raise your hand
next now who thinks that you can't you
have assigned sex
so this is where we're going to get a
little bit mystical and I'm going to
encourage you to use your imagination so
not a yoga the first text of nada yoga
I've not have been doing body shots and
they were written between 500 to your bc
those who he's focused very much on a
sound at all and their goal was to get
to this place it's called on a hot dog
somos ass they are made by striking
something they call the friction and
that vibration travels doer than a year
but the word on ohonta needs unstruck
sound it is the sound of space the sound
lies all sounds the Sufis they call the
songs out that much all vibration rise
out of and dissolves back into the
Buddhists they call us on yahoo on the
hatha zap zenyatta this is the ultimate
goal of the sanno you to be in touch
with this place but this is kind of I
guess the sonic version of Nirvana in
many ways there is so much richness to
developing practice round sound without
having that as the goal just practicing
practicing without enhancing their
vibration so there are many promises
that you sound we cultivate different
states of receptivity risa policies on
these are called the yoga of sound and
they found two different categories the
first one is chanting mantras so the
weird minds that needs an instrument of
the mind it's a sacred utterance sound
huh durance it's something that you
infuses meaning in your peach /
interest of time because i want to bring
you to be even more as a tech stuff for
only an exchange one mantra and that's
the Asia contrast is Steve montrose I'm
going to be encouraging you again choose
your imagination of that we're also
going to do a pranayama that's called
provari
that has anyone ever tried Amar'e oh
cool I awesome I'm stoked and then we're
also going to chant ohm and the sufis on
who
after that we're going to move achieve
my favorite element in nada yoga which
is sound that tension and that's when
you listen to these really rich and deep
tones and they create the state of
treatment so when I'm going to bring
these singing bowls
this creates a current of Sal the travel
is only you and passes through into your
body it also contains your mind to this
tone and that's why it's so soothing
let's begin with our module practice and
Rick let's share the new shell modules
be chest are like the cold seeds downs
so I'm going to so you guys have
probably all heard about chakras and I'm
going to encourage you to use your
imagination so whether you believe in
chocolate or not it's really not a court
I'm going to encourage you to imagine
that there's seven energy centers
southern wheels spinning in your body
and then they're traveling up the length
of your spine
each of these wheels have a sound that
emanates from it and we're going to do
something that's called call and
response is there anyone whose own let's
just do a quick check it he's
comfortable with chopped shifting he's
like totally cool that is that you're
not comfortable chanting awesome you
guys are great thank you so the first so
the the first time was called long and
it's for the root chakra this is a place
of stability you're really present so
the sound is going to go
love
[Music]
we're moving after the sacral chakra
this is our creativity in our
inspiration the sound is called
[Music]
Oh
just notice your breath breathe really
deeply
now we're moving up into the solar
plexus this is our route of power
this is our where I really need to make
decisions in manifest our will in this
world comes from the sound is all wrong
[Music]
wrong
we're moving into the heart and an
interesting thing is that the anahata is
the name of the chakra this heart chakra
this unstruck sound that lives deep
within us and that's why would some
people say that the universe is made of
love that's what they're talking about
they say the universe is made of the
silence and that silence is love the
sound is
[Music]
whoa
the next are moving into our center of
expression is the throat and we're going
to open this up so if you're ever
feeling like an accounting hard time
expressing yourself you can sneak into
the bathroom to campus oh
come
[Music]
now
you might have noticed a pattern he
sounds we're going to break that pattern
this next chakra is right between your
eyebrows we not know this to be the
brain but once upon a time there was a
mystic space and intuition the sound is
[Music]
gorgeous and then this last one is the
crown chakra making king or queen of
yourself and connecting with everything
around you the sound which is the sound
that we will revisit together is called
home
[Music]
thank you guys
so the next practice that we're going to
do is call provari and it's a form of
time a yard
so what we're going to do is we're going
to take a deep inhale and then we're
going to create a sound that sounds like
buzzing bees or in our urban lifestyle
of some of our frigerator deep it is
going to sound like
let's try that first
[Music]
so do this you want to resonate an
entire body you want to be able to
really feel it in your face
[Music]
we're going to get a little weirder
you're going to do this with both hands
i'm holding a mic so i'm going to do
this with one you're going to take your
thumb and press the cartilage of your
ear in so you can't hear anyone they
going to take your hands put them over
your face and press lightly on your eyes
just press your eyes ghost deep inhale
in
all together inhaling
[Music]
your eyes closed we're going to go to
six rounds this on your own feet so in
two finishes
[Music]
take a couple deep breaths
this is idea and yoga of withdrawal of
the sexes and that means I'm withdrawing
from the outside environment going to a
quiet place going within so you can hear
the sound and in nadi yoga that is
literally the sound
your body is probably unaware that can't
hear that there's a lot of mechanisms to
your body not moving they're creating
sound
so our next practice is going to be
talking about the phone and the only has
a tremendously resonant sound
it's probably the biggest sound your
body can make like there's no other boys
to convey with which you can resonate
your entire body with it it's considered
sacred
from the ancient yogic cultures and it's
a beautiful
beautiful practice it's considered as
close as you can get to that Russian
roaring sound to that sound which you're
kind of like you know the famous
Buddhist joke like make me one with
everything like that
so
we're going so there's usually three
parts to the ohm there's the a the 0 and
the app and if you try it like if you go
home and then you go all you'll notice
how much more powerful it is it's the
full spectrum of sound your body to make
so it's gonna go
and when you make the appt it kind of
goes up into the nose it almost sounds
like a little bit like a nap and the
sound I mean it's not it's not like a
really sweet sound so I go ahead what's
up I'm going to home it's a very easy
like powerful it with your entire body
everything that you are making it sound
so making sign is very active practice
but you also want to receive the stylers
and making it so you want to experience
it and soften into it at the same time
to the Cullen
[Music]
and one more time
so in the tradition of nada yoga
transfer India this is the most sacred
pact with the soup is who are also inch
in mystic sound have the sound of their
own that they consider your highest and
most sacred symbol and that is the sound
food and it's one of my favorite sounds
because it sounds a lot like these
instruments and I might even tone over
them to show that the sound goes
[Music]
and I feel my personal practice I feel
like the own with everything right the
deep rich sound whole world he was just
like the stuff you like you know your
favorite things like it's just like
calling in all that beauty and all that
joy see the Helen
[Music]
this time as you say it listen to this
way that all of us opens for using a
tone listen to the way they interact
listen to the way they intersect
[Music]
beautiful
the next thing that I want to do is I
want to play a little sound bad for you
guys for this experience I'm going to
encourage you to lie down on the ground
and cover your eyes or anything and then
go to push them afterwards
[Music]
you
as
try to look until your entire body
[Music]
[Applause]
[Laughter]
[Music]
when you're ready come into a
comfortable seated position
one thing I time to share earlier
presumptively something that was really
difficult
i
rented i don't definitely camera and it
was these incidents that really helped
me create that practice and totally
change the way that my mind functioned
and that's why i have really really
passion russia and i work with this
amazing person his name is guy Douglas
who's my co-founder he is the person who
first showed me this for years ago and
we put on these events in terms of
discovery they're called the holistic
chamber of sound so we I know some of
you guys have heard of them before but
if you guys want to stay in touch please
do we're going to do our next round one
july and it's not just these instruments
like there's huge epic gongs against
this roaring sound that just rounds yeah
so if you want to sign up for that i'll
i'll link on the ones lon page i'll make
our facebook page you can like subscribe
to that and you can also help give us an
email address public house well thank
you again can believe for putting this
together thank you
a lot of questions
that what are the
quartz crystal there as they originally
made of sand that's spun around like
really high temperatures and they place
the last week insane to them
so you used a lot of yogic terms but
most of us when we think of yoga think
of something pretty different can you
connect the dots and explain how this
makes the sutras or regular yoga
practice absolutely the most the
conscious most people knows of a yoga
and hot that means done engineer so go
out and we see if I would traditionally
think of like yoga class trips those are
called awesomeness and the really cool
thing about yoga postures they awake in
our bodies and expand our bodies to
allow us to basically like feel more
energy flow feel this amazing like
presence but another thing that the
yogic postures do is they balance our
masculine and our feminine energy
balance Sun energy of the moon energy so
you're like doing warrior two and it's
like I'm doing warrior two and I'm also
softly to warrior two and if the
practice of doing both of those up ones
that basically awakens both the states
of being and puts them into one in that
state of the union is yoga means Union
does that dress your question or do you
want to go further so this particular
practice actually has an origin though
that's similar or it's an its origin as
an entire shot so originally the plan
car shot only have like several
awesomeness in them and H oculus leave a
like home it's one of the there's like a
branch that was dedicated so all there's
many different types of yoga and they do
help common origin oh
thank you
more about
yeah so I actually
found out what a telescope was just that
I've heard of it before but i have only
like found out like how you can make one
so basically you could take a rubber
sheet and
you know those crocheting like circles
you can put around the circle if you do
on bagel and then you can put stand
there channel experiments we've done
with a very fine grain course we came to
see sand and then you put it in this
light bulb and you put a rubber truth
out of the bowl and then you make a
sound like whoa you see how that's like
traveling through my fingers whoa
imagine he was travelling engines cup on
top of those couple was its rubber sheet
and I talked to the rubber sheet was a
stand so what happens is he start to see
patterns emerge and one of the most
interesting things that they discovered
was that the sound of ohm actually makes
like that's circle that many people
associate with the concept of home and
if you keep going and you just look at
bad like a little bit more sand
resonated with it it actually makes this
up like you start to see these kind of
triangles that are almost like the Sri
Ravi entre which is just like really
this is it's a it's a very big symbol
and like tantric yoga and said really
it's really fun stuff the scientist who
first discovered net is named Hans Jenny
and if you look up cymatics i'll i'll
put the links up on what's lon super fun
so I think the question that you ask is
what do we focus on when you're
experiencing the sound
it's very personal and it depends on
each person one of the things that I
really like about sound meditation is
that like there's not a lot of dogma
about it like it's just whatever you're
feeling and experiencing the best way
for you to go about it you know we don't
like especially with the events that we
host we try not to have any philosophy
not to have anything about pushing up
and let's go just like this is safe
space to your nice sounds
what I try to do is I just try to use my
breath just like let my breath keria and
just imagine like breathing in the sound
and then pulling into my body
do you one thing that I've heard let
people say that like you try to think
about it you're like thinking about
what's going on you're going to be a
little bit too much in your head so just
trying to like relax and let go I think
only think about my bones melting to the
ground but trying to like really become
really heavy
thank you
[Music]
don't go into the next section which is
going to be pretty fast like probably
like 10 minutes it's just going to be
responses and then after this we're
going to go into my very favorite part
which is wiggling in which you get to
meet